Vigil, M.s.Antony & Rathor, S.S. & Singh, J.. (2016). Secure binary image steganography using F5 algorithm based on data hiding and diffusion techniques. 9. 4843-4857. Steganography is the science of passing the information in the manner that the very existence of the message is unknown. The purpose of steganography is to avoid suspicion to the transmission of hidden message, such that it is highly secured. This paper represents a binary image steganographic scheme that aims to provide the Image quality and security as well as improving the capacity of data. Statistical analysis: Steganography can be viewed as a kin to cryptography. Both have been used to provide the better security of information. Hiding a message using steganography technique minimizes the number of chances of a message being detected. The most commonly method used for steganography technique is a Least Significant Bit (LSB) algorithm. LSB algorithm performs the embedding operation of message along with the image file where each pixel has a size of 3 bytes. Each and every bit of the message is taken and this message bit is embedded along with the bytes of the image file such that, it doesn't make any perceivable change in the message embedded file. Findings: That is the ease of cracking the message which is hidden in the image file due to the simplicity of the algorithm that provide the simple platform for the easy cracking and detectability of the hiding data. Thus the Security Extensibility algorithms for steganography used as a F5 algorithm and cryptography used as a AES algorithm which is used to provide the more security such that the cracking is made quite tough which is almost improbable. Steganography F5 algorithm is more secure than other existing algorithm such as LSB algorithm, RSA algorithm. Conclusion: F5 algorithm performs the matrix encoding to improve the efficiency of embedding and extraction operation. Thus it minimizes the number of necessary changes. F5 algorithm employs per mutative straddling to scatter the message over the whole cover medium to reduce the chances of detectability and improving the security of data. This paper also introduces the quality of the image using various data hiding and diffusion techniques.